Well, I'm working now.
I got it going.
Oh, good.
And so briefly, just for my tape recording, give us your full name so we have it on the tape.
Oh, sure.
Ronald Schleicher.
And you were telling my wife some fascinating things about how you work with physicians who are also writers.
Yeah.
Part of what we were talking about last night is
uh what they find and they've tested to find this is as students progress through medical school they become worse and worse at listening to patients at listening yes and and in fact at the oklahoma medical school but many of them do this when freshman medical students come in before they start classes they have them interview simulated patients and they record
their skills in obtaining information, and they do this every year, and every year they get worse.
The first two years are courses, the second two years are clinical work.
Through this clinical use, this third and fourth year, they did worse and worse.
And so we've designed this class, and now we're designing this project to try to teach doctors to listen better.
And the way to do it is to involve them in literature.
Wow.
And what precisely do you teach?
Why don't you tell me a little bit about what your background is?
Oh, my background is I have a degree in English in modern literature.
Wrote my thesis, my dissertation on Yates.
But I've done a million things.
I'm part of the Fund of English.
You can do whatever you want.
So this is not really a medical kind of a thing for you.
Well, it's become a medical thing because I've worked for six years.
Jerry and I have taught classes here on the campus and at the Health Science Center up in the city to medical students and pre-medical students.
In fact, Jerry even bought me a white coat.
That's great.
He told me if I were in the hospital, I'd be pounding our chest.
But it's wonderful.
I mean, these are the brightest and among the most motivated students you'll ever meet.
And they want to be good doctors.
And there's something about medical education.
We could talk about this a little bit.
Because I think we can specify what it is.
But there's something about medical education that teaches people
They don't have to interact with patients.
But to get back to something you said earlier, why were they getting worse and worse every year?
What was going on that they were regressing?
There are lots of speculations.
My educated sense is that—this is my office here—
I like this.
It's fine.
I'm very comfortable here.
It gets worse and worse because the nature of medical education is positive science.
And they're taught without having to interact with other people.
I mean, probably the course like this, which we've been teaching, is there's so much information
medical students need to learn.
So whose idea was it to bring an English professor into the medical school?
It was Jerry Veneta, the dean of the college.
Well, and I'll show you the—let me take off my jacket and I'll show you because it's on the computer.
Look at the cow, Greg.
My son took the cow.
What kind of old is he?
He's 20.
I mean, he's no child.
Well, that 20-year-old does the same kind of thing.
Well, I've got a polar bear in mine, which is kind of funny.
So we've probably got about 15 minutes, I would think, right?
Yeah.
She said she's going to come at quarter, too.
Okay.
Are they going to come here?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
To pick you up.
In fact, I just made a presentation.
This is chapter two.
This is the small company up in Tulsa who are doing the technique.
This is the table of contents.
And this is the chapter we have here on the patient's story.
The story a patient brings to the physician is usually among the first and most important information that healthcare workers encounter.
These stories, narrated by the patient or, in special cases by others, present information organized in particular ways that call from particular times in which we're going to call ourselves again.
...the patient-physician relationship, and that help define the scope of healing and care in particular cases.
Here, I mean, there's some wonderful things here.
We've been here, although I won't go through the whole thing with a quote by William Carlin, as well as a great writer who was a physician.
Right.
And we've interviewed a mess of people, including Oliver Sacks,
But this is John Stone, who's a cardiologist at Emory, and we're contracted to have it done by October.
I mean, this is my favorite.
John came to Oklahoma City, and we've made him... Graduation at Emory University School of Medicine in 1982 with OEM is...
after Christopher Smart, so constructed about his cat, Geoffrey.
I just want to read the last part of this, but I want to underscore first that Gaudium Sagatur is an old medieval Latin drinking song, which many of you will have sung at graduation.
It means, therefore, let us rejoice.
story will come to you like hunger like thirst for you will know the answer like second nature like thirst for the patient will live and you will try to understand for you will be amazed the patient will not live and you will try to understand for you will be baffled for you will try to explain both either to the family for there will be laying on of hands and the letting go
was what death would always intend if it had the choice.
For the fever will drop, the bone remold along its lines of force, a speech will tremble itself.
So each chapter opens up with half a dozen people who calls.
We spoke to Robert Calls, and on the other hand,
our plan is now that we're good ways along we're going to get back in touch with him because we quote from his work with all of stories and one of the things even if we can't get him on camera i bet you i'm morally certain this beginning just talks about um uh patient stories and important and one of the ways this functions when we're done it'll run about eight or nine hours the whole thing is about narrative and storytelling literature and patience
In fact, one of the things we have, we have a search engine with different kinds of attention afforded by literature and narrative.
Reading this down here is part of what we're going to do is create what's called continuing medical education.
We need to take 150 hours every three years.
schools all over the country offer courses of one story or another.
Both Howard Medical College and Penn, who's publishing this, and Columbia, her name is Rita Sharon.
But one of the things, this chapter is called Narrative Knowledge, and one of the aims of this DVD is to find, since they were 13, to get into medical school, that there are other people, for instance,
So here's the screen, although it's ugly, we're going to change it, about narrative knowledge, and then we hyperlink it to a mess of stuff about Descartes.
Here's a screen on Descartes.
We hired this company, and we're just working closely with them.
So we're just finding images, and they paste them up, and we decide if we like them.
Is this something that you hope to ask them twice in medical schools?
Well, both.
Here's the problem.
Terry says to me, you'd like this.
When you go to medical school, you'll learn.
The students who we've had, I've taught for 25 years.
Can we get medical students to grudge this stuff when they have so much other stuff to learn?
And our medical school could say to second year students, this is what you have to do when you're not taking classes.
It's an AC.
It really is an exciting project.
One of the... So we have this.
We have... What we did is we... Later... We have a good search engine, but later we're going to... The later chapters that you're developing, you can go to a particular page.
I hired two English graduate students to work as our assistant on this to find images.
And one of the things... The following patient positioning.
This is one of our students.
One of the things we've done... I'll just shut this down here.
Enacted a... Do I?
Yes, hi.
I'm Dr. Doraleva.
Yeah.
She tells her story.
I'm here today because your doctor asked me to come and see if I could help figure out what's going on.
It sounds like it's kind of... She has implanted arteries.
That's great.
That he doesn't notice at this point.
He doesn't notice.
And... This hasn't been done.
Well, in fact, this is a case that Jerry knew about.
So... I mean, in terms of the story.
Yeah, in terms of the story, right.
And here we have a copy of... This is what... This is an elaborate one for the students.
So the students can go through this.
It's very standard.
Between patient visits?
I'll go back.
This is terrific.
At the end of this, this thing takes seven minutes, this interview.
At the end of the interview, let's get to it.
Other tests they've already done and what I've learned, I'll be examining you in just a minute and see if we can figure out what's going on.
Well, has he done this?
Yeah.
And at the end of the interview, he gives the dominant discomfort.
I mean, she has fatigue, a low-grade fever, and this is something that really happened with Jerry.
He met this woman.
The story is hilarious, and he saved her life.
I'll just let that go.
But anyway, what we go through here is the patient's history of present illness presents a
What we go through here for the medical students is the ways that, if you understand how many, we have a bunch of sections earlier.
I'm watching the clock.
Sherlock Holmes.
They're going to change that.
It won't say you lose it.
It's a nose search, you lose it.
So we have murders in the Rue Morgue.
Uh, to talk about the text.
Oh, I got the wrong button.
Um, sorry.
Get the sound.
Uh, lots of... He wrote three.
The murders in the room or... Okay, so, and then we have them... Extraordinary murders.
Just read them.
That's why I was asking her about copyright.
...were aroused from sleep by a succession of terrific three.
And we have a lot of discussion about the way that the detectives go about their business.
And Conan Doyle, for instance, was a doctor.
And that's the Mishrach Holmes.
A scholar who teaches Northwestern medical humanities talking about the last section of this chapter.
This is just about the patient.
Unwillingly it seems.
Separation seems.
But I guess some of the things I might.
Almost never share my own thoughts with my students.
want to bring out of that poem with students or someone else teaching it would be to think perhaps about the way in which illness is almost never an isolated experience or individual experience that this is a shared experience in the poem between two people who are in love and that
the end of life i think which is visible in the poem uh is something that both people present in the poem must confront and and and so the one issue there i think that would be important the first this is a series of dvds and the first one they did is called red planet about mars in fact my a pal of mine bob markley did this
And three of us are editing this series of DVDs for pen.
And I wanted to give you a copy of this, although ours is much better, because Bob did his on a shoestring.
He's an English professor.
And I found the pot of gold up at the—just in terms of funding.
But— That's important.
Yeah.
And what Bob did is—it took him four years—three years to do this, and he would get $5,000 here and $5,000 there.
And that's something on this scale.
Yeah.
But he started it, and I wish I had an extra copy.
I'll mail you.
If you give me your card, I'll email you, and then we can establish a line of communication.
We have a lot to talk about.
Excellent.
Oh, it's just, and it's so exciting.
I mean, it's, yeah.
Adjunct professor of medicine.
Yeah, yeah, I got an appointment.
Is that something?
He's got a, he's got a position in the medical school.
It's terrific.
It is.
It's a real thing.
It's fantastic.
And you're pioneering something, I think, too, which is, it has to be done, you know.
Well, it works.
I mean, the students who get encounters with stuff.
We had one young man, I was telling you last night, from Arkansas, a brave medical student.
We took our two-week course, and we read five books, Tenders, The Night.
Come in.
The door should be open, yeah.
I can print out my syllabus.
Anyway, he announces new class in front of other people.
He says, I've doubled the number of books I've written.
Wow.
Hi, Pat.
I know.
We've got a call, right?
I have to miss your talk to Sam.
That's okay.
Well, you've heard everything I've got to say.